LINUX ASSIGNMENT ::
BASIC LEVEL 
￼
1. What command is used to get the IP addresses of all interfaces on a server? — ifconfig 
2. What is the purpose of "mv" command?  — to move files from one location to another, also to rename the files. 
3. Which command is used to create a new empty file? — touch <filename> 
4. Which command is used to display the contents of a directory? — ls  
5. Which command is used to display all the file names along with  their types of the current directory? — ls-l 
6. Which command is used to clear the terminal? —clear 
7. What are daemons? — background processes 
8. Which command is used to move to the parent directory? — cd ~ 
9. What does echo command do?— used to display a line of text
10.How to display content of a file?— using cat command 11. How to identify which shell you are using? — $SHELL 12. How do you check if a particular service is running? — service <servicename> status 13.What is the command to run a program with elevated 
permissions? — sudo 14.Which command is used to display the path of the current 
working directory? — pwd 15. How to delete a directory forcefully? — rm -rf dirname
16.Which command is used to switch from superuser to normal user? — su
17. How to switch to superuser (root) with elevated permissions? — sudo su -
18.How to determine the type of a file? — file <filename>

INTERMEDIATE LEVEL 
1. What are the different modes when using VI editor? — 3 modes command mode, input mode, exit mode 
2. Which command is used to create multiple directories simultaneously?  —mkdir -p 
3. What is LILO? LILO stands for Linux Loader that is used to load Linux into memory.  
4. How cd~,cd/and cd- are different from each other? — cd~ : returns to the home directory cd/ :change the current directory to the root directory, cd - :to navigate to previous directory  
5. What is a grep command? —used to search for a string of characters in a specified file. 
6. If we are in the directory X and we are running rmdirX being in that  directory X. Will this command successfully remove the directory or not? — no it won’t, the directory has to be empty 
7. What are the contents of /usr/local? —system administrator when installing software locally 
8. Which command is used to display the current username? — who 
9. What command is used to change your password? — passwd 
10. How to find the difference in two configuration files? — vimdiff 
11. How to find where a file is located in Linux? — locate <file>
12. Which command shows the users that are logged in? — w 
13. How to forcefully stop a process which is running in the background?— kill <processname>  
14. Which command is used to list the name of files starting from any  particular alphabet or string? — ls [string or alphabet] 
15. How to move multiple files of the same extension to a different directory?  — mv file1 file 2 directory 
16. What command would you use to check how much memory is being used ? — cat proc/meminfo 
17. Which command is used to display the list of content in reverse order? --- ls -r 
18. What command is used to show how long it's been since the server was rebooted? — uptime 19. What command is used to change the ownership of a file? — chown

